---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: New Beginnings
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-31
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Javascript
---

Javascript was the very first language I had encountered when I was first took a step into the vast sea of computer science. Of course, growing up under stereotypical Korean parents who wanted me to go into the field of medical, law or business, I had to put my burning passion aside to satisfy them while in high school. Prior to graduating high school, I declared as a computer science major without telling my parents. I still remember the look on their faces when I told them that I was not going to be a doctor, a lawyer or an entrepreneur. However, I was an adult (I thought I was old enough to do ANYTHING) and no one was going to stop me, not even my own parents; so I began my journey in the computer science field as a freshman. Upon completing my first year in college, the only language that I was actually fluent in was java, as it was taught in both of the introductory ICS courses. Hence, when I saw that ICS 314 enforces lessons on javascript, it reminded me of the time when I was first introduced to the language and it planted enthusiasm in me as it meant that I will finally be able to learn something that I had desired to learn a few years ago.

Javascript is very similar to all the other languages that I was able to familiarize myself with, they're mostly built on the same concept and basics of computer science and programming languages and while they may not be completely identical to one another or specialize in the same functionality, it doesn't take that long to get accustomed to other languages once you know some of them. On the other hand, javascript is still slightly different from other languages in that it is highly responsive to the front end of websites unlike some other languages. I think javascript is a good langauge as it is webs browser compatible and it is easy to learn as a beginner who doesn't have much prior experience of software engineering. I'm definitely looking forward to learn more in depth about javascript and strengthen my skills in software engineering throughout this course.

I have to admit that I was frightened when I heard about the WODs in this class (I mean, who wouldn't be scared of quizzes or exams?). However, the practice WODs posted online, along with the group WOD and Danny WOD, helped me understand what I was supposed to expect for the real WOD and took some weights off my chest as I began strategizing in order to use the time more efficiently to solve the problem within the given time frame and I was getting better after each practice. None of my classes so far was taught this way and in my opinion it is very enjoyable. Students are expected to know and understand the theory and the concepts behind software engineering but the WODs are created in order to strengthen the student's ability in applying his or her knowledge on to practice problems and improve the student's capability in solving probles in a limited time. I really like that the WODs are not just about memorizing the book or lines of codes. It helps me think better and more critically, whilst using my knowledge and experiences with programming. I definitely think that it will work for me as I learn better after doing more hands-on activities and practices. I am unusually excited to let my knowledge and passion grow immensely through this course!
